---
title: "Day 108 - [REDACTED]"
layout: post
categories:
- REDACTED
- REDACTED
- REDACTED
feature_image: "/assets/banner-flash-forward.png"
permalink: /day-108
comments: true
---

{% include figure.html image="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/refs/heads/main/img/reredacted1.png" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

## Sam's Take:

[Redacted] is a puzzle game so deep, that its first puzzle comes before the game even starts. Double clicking the executable give you this error:

{% include figure.html image="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/refs/heads/main/img/reredacted2.png" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

This is a fairly comprehensive hint that your first task of this game should be to rename the data folder from New_Unity_Project_Data to Redacted_Data. Once you solve that tutorial puzzle, you can launch the game and placed into THE OFFICE:

{% include figure.html image="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/refs/heads/main/img/reredacted3.png" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

There’s a twisty cube puzzle on the computer that allows you to enter a room with a safe and... that’s as far as I could get. I tried for way longer than I was planning on, something about playing a game with no comments and an exe that doesn’t launch the game until you make manual edits really incentivised me to finish this, but I am unable to open the safe.

{% include figure.html image="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/refs/heads/main/img/reredacted4.png" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

I found a chart in one of the cubicles, but am yet to find any dots or dashes hidden around anywhere.

{% include figure.html image="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/refs/heads/main/img/reredacted5.png" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

Honestly, even if I could find the solution to the safe puzzle, the game has no aesthetic, the puzzles I did solve were boring, and the documents found around the office feel like they were written by college students who majored in game design... which makes sense since apparently this was made for a class at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 

Recently I’ve been struggling with using Adventure Game Studio and feel pretty stupid, but these private university students posted a game with an incorrectly named data file, so it made me feel a little better about myself at least.

**Recommend: no**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 1%**

**Time Played: 20 Minutes [Then 10 more minutes after]**

[SAM EDIT: PRESSING F AFTER YOU PICK UP A PURPLE TUBE TURNS THE SCREEN PURPLE AND ALLOWS YOU TO SEE HIDDEN CLUES. THERE IS A DOCUMENT WITH THE GAME’S CONTROLS AND THIS IS NEVER MENTIONED. THIS GAME IS ONLY BEATABLE IF YOU RENAME A DATA FILE AND PRESS A RANDOM BUTTON ON YOUR KEYBOARD]

[SAM EDIT 2: IT ENDED WITH A JUMP SCARE ALIEN AFTER A MEMORIZATION PUZZLE, GO HOME KIDS NOTHING TO SEE HERE]

## Skeeter's Take:

Well, I didn’t read Sam’s edits initially and figured out the black light you can grab from one of the desks reveals the code to the safe. I then realized I would have to run back and forth between the safe and the code key to decipher it and decided a game set in the most bland corporate office you could imagine wasn’t worth the effort. I then felt bad that I was a fake journalist, and wanted to take Sam’s review further/give the game a due process and decided to relaunched the game. I then spent 10 minutes reliving the cube puzzle and decided it wasn’t worth the effort. I think that says a lot about my enjoyment of this game. 

Thankfully, I read Sam’s edits after I gave up on the cube puzzle and it sounds like it was in fact, “Not worth it”. 

Thank you for coming to my Ted Talk. 

**Recommend: [REDACTED]**

**Replay Percentage Chance: [REDACTED]**

**Time Played: [REDACTED]**

{% include button.html text="Link to Game" link="https://gabrielgray.itch.io/redacted" %}