---
title: "Day 189 - Vote on it"
layout: post
categories:
- WTF
- REDACTED
- Immersive Sim
feature_image: "/assets/banner-flash-forward.png"
permalink: /day-189
comments: true
---

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img2/blob/main/img/vote1.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}
 
## Skeeter's Take:

Creep_X needs your help! They need YOU to vote on which Fallout series theme song to use for their new game! Don’t worry, Creep_X is a musical maniac and could create the music themselves, but this is for a Fallout fan game so it fits. 

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img2/blob/main/img/vote2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

The three theme songs of Fallout 3, New Vegas, and Fallout 4 have generously been laid out by Creep_X in a nice sound board spread. You can’t actually submit a vote, and it doesn’t seem to track any amount of clicks or views. It just plays the intro song to the respective button you click on. 

There is one clear winner amongst the candidates for me. As soon as I pressed play on that New Vegas button, I got goosebumps. I was immediately taken back to the New Vegas main screen - NCR Ranger glaring down at me with glowing red eyes. I was excited. I felt like I was on the precipice of something big. Just hearing the damn theme song made me want to launch New Vegas again. To me, that’s a testament to a solid ass theme song. The other songs did not elicit the same response. Instead, my yawn reflex was triggered and my eyes became heavy. 

So, I come to you with this: 

Fiends, Boomers, wastelandmen, lend me your ears; 
I come to praise Caesar, not to bury him. 
The evil that FO4 does lives after it; 
The good is oft interred with FO3; 
So let us choose NV. The noble Legion
hath told you Caesar was ambitious: As ambitious as the New Vegas theme.
If it were so, it was by design, and meticulously hath Inon Zur created it! 

**Recommend: New Vegas**

**Replay Percentage Chance:New Vegas**

**Time Played: New Vegas** 

## Sam's Take:

I’m voting 3rd party:

{% include video.html id="q4i05EaML44" title="" %}

**Recommend: For real, you should pick the one that fits your game best, not choose via popular vote before people have played.**

**Replay Percentage Chance: Bloop**

**Time Played: Bloop**

{% include button.html text="Link to Game" link="https://creep-x.itch.io/vote-on-it" %}