---
title: "Day 107 - [REDACTED]"
layout: post
categories:
- REDACTED
- REDACTED
- REDACTED
feature_image: "/assets/banner-flash-forward.png"
permalink: /day-107
comments: true
---

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/redacted1.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

## Skeeter's Take:

Valve is responsible for creating some of my favorite games of all time. I played a ton of Team Fortress 2 from my laptop in my college dorm with Sam and friends. I have so many hours in Dota 2 I am afraid to share that information with you (it’s over 7.5k, feel free to judge me). So, needless to say when I heard that Icefrog (lead developer of Dota 2) and Valve were working on a new game, I was very excited. Just a couple days ago, I received an invite to play test [REDACTED] and I was very excited. However, as Sam shows in his screenshot, Valve has banned any discussion or review of the game. One journalist for The Verge got banned for clicking out of the agreement instead of accepting the terms to not discuss the game, and posted a review. Valve banned him from their game shortly after. I am personally having a blast with the game and don’t want to befall the same fate, so I’ve taken some extra measures of editing my review to stay Valve ban safe. 

[REDACTED] combines ideas of games like [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. In [REDACTED], the player takes on the role of various [REDACTED] each with their own [REDACTED]. The player kills [REDACTED] and collects [REDACTED] to [REDACTED]. The game feels like a big [REDACTED] with a ton of [REDACTED] between the [REDACTED] teams. The player can take the [REDACTED] to the [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], which actually gives a lot of [REDACTED]. Much like, [REDACTED], the main objective of the game is to [REDACTED]. There are a lot of little ideas that add up and end up mattering a ton in the whole picture. Things like [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] add a breath of fresh air to what could be a stale formula at this point. I think the experience Icefrog has brought from his work in Dota is really shining through here. Obviously, it is still in early access and I think with time it will become a really, really solid and hopefully balanced game. I’m having a good time with it. The matches have been close and intense and I can’t stop theory crafting builds for my main man [REDACTED]. If you are on my Steam friends list and I didn’t happen to send you access to the beta for this game, hmu, I’ll send you an invite!

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/redacted2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

**Recommend: Yes**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 100%**

**Time Played: 8 hours**

## Sam's Take:

My first game of [REDACTED] didn’t go so hot. The tutorials didn’t explain all the steps necessary to [REDACTED] so when it [REDACTED] and moved to the [REDACTED], I wasn’t sure exactly what we were supposed to do. We tried shooting it, using our [REDACTED] on it, but we got team wiped every time. After discussing it with Skeeter, I discovered it was [REDACTED]’s [REDACTED] ability that was killing us.

My second game I picked [REDACTED]. We won every single fight where I [REDACTED] my [REDACTED]. Look how big the aoe is on this [REDACTED]:

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/redacted2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

It makes sense for there to be some [REDACTED] issues since the [REDACTED] is in early access, but it did make it [REDACTED] for me to [REDACTED] the game fully. It’s also much harder to tell what is happening in [REDACTED] due to the [REDACTED] perspective. It’s like playing Dota, but if [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED].

I’m not sure if [REDACTED] but over time [REDACTED] [REDACTED] so I think it’s [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED]  [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED].

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/redacted2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}


[REDACTED] Bioshock Infinite [REDACTED] [REDACTED] Danganronpa [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED].

**Recommend: [REDACTED]**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 100[REDACTED]**

**Time Played: [REDACTED] Minutes**

{% include button.html text="Link to Game" link="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bhsx8Ag90JA" %}