---
title: "Day 67 - Pinball"
layout: post
categories:
- Sports
- WTF
- Nightmare Fuel
feature_image: "/assets/banner-flash-forward.png"
permalink: /day-67
comments: true
---

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/pinball1.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

## Skeeter's Take:

I’m not sure if [Nebulaeable](https://nebulaeable.itch.io/){:target="_blank"} (the dev of today’s game) has really seen a pinball machine before. I’m not trying to poke fun at Nebulaeable here, in fact I’m feeling a little sympathetic towards them as a real pinball machine can be a (somewhat) enjoyable experience. Real pinball is a silly little pass time, sure, but it is kind of fun hitting balls off of bumpers and watching your score get larger and larger.  Unfortunately, this Pinball doesn’t have bumpers, or noises, or things to hit to rack up a score. The flippers aren’t even correct - the little rectangles spin on their center axis. They don’t work at all like you would expect normal pinball flippers to work - instead they SPINNI: 

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/pinball2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

Everytime the ball falls between the Grand Canyon sized gap between the flippers, you have to refresh the entire page - I hope you enjoy your 3 seconds of SPINNI before you have to hit F5!

**Recommend: No**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 0%**

**Time Played: 30 Seconds**

## Sam's Take:

The first time I played this game, the ball got stuck on the wall in an unreachable spot. The second time I hit it once and it fell through the gap between my flippers. The third time I got the flippers at an angle which caused the ball to bounce violently and infinitely, giving me an unending high score:

{% include video.html id="vNCTLCr9QJ8" title="" %}

I appreciate the number of new experiences I got out of this game, but unfortunately it is a bad game. Too bad!

**Recommend: No** 

**Replay Percentage Chance: 0%**

**Time Played: 10 Minutes** 

{% include button.html text="Link to Game" link="https://nebulaeable.itch.io/pinball" %}