---
title: "Day 57 - Fisk"
layout: post
categories:
- Bangers
- Short and Free
- Immersive Sim
feature_image: "/assets/banner-flash-forward.png"
permalink: /day-57
comments: true
---

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/fisk1.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

## Skeeter's Take:

Somedays, it’s hard to decide on a game. There are always a few days a week where I spend more time looking for a game to review than I do actually playing/reviewing the game. I’ve used all sorts of gimmicks in the past. I’ve used random word generators to give me a noun, and then I’ll search that noun in Itch.io to see what comes up. If Sam needs an easy day, or is doing IRL things, I sometimes try to pick a game based around what he’s doing that day (MTG card builder for his MTG night, etc.) Today, I just decided to go to the “New Games” section on itch.io and see what jumped out to me. 

As soon as I saw a game named “Fisk”, I (like any good Spider-Man nerd) immediately thought of this guy:

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/fisk2.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

Fisk AKA Kingpin. I picked the game blind based on the name alone today. This is what you are getting. You can blame Stan Lee and Steve Ditko (or my sick brain) for today’s game. 

Turns out Fisk actually has nothing to do with Kingpin, or Spider-Man. 

In Fisk, you control a fish that follows your mouse. You goal is to collect little fish food chunks (the little gold orbs) while avoiding the anchor and land mine that move around the screen:

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/fisk3.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

The more fish food you eat, the larger your fish grows. Occasionally, a shark shoots out from the side of the screen without warning, and if you aren’t in a good position already, you have very little time to react and will almost certainly lose. 

The fish food pellets can be used to unlock more skins.

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/fisk4.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

That’s, uhh… That’s kind of all there is to it!

Oh, I did forget to mention, the chiptune music track that plays is a banger alert banger alert. 
Shit goes so hard. 

Needs more Kingpin and Spider-Man though.

{% include figure.html image="https://github.com/flash-forward-reviews/img/blob/main/img/fisk5.png?raw=true" caption="" alt="" %}{:target="_blank"}

**Recommend: No. It’s well made, but I found it very boring.**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 1%**

**Time Played: 8 minutes**

## Sam's Take:

I agree with Ryan that this game is pretty dull, but I found out with just a few small adjustments, you can actually make this game really fun:

{% include video.html id="wlAuz5B99vk" title="" %}

**Recommend: No**

**Replay Percentage Chance: 1%**

**Time Played: 3 Minutes**

{% include button.html text="Link to Game" link="https://virsolus.itch.io/fisk" %}